Hello again you lovely God people in this video let's make the level a bit more dangerous.
We're going to make Spike hazards before we go any further let's figure out what a spike is going to
do and again I would like Spike to have several effects first off and the plague sort of spike.
They're going to lose a life.
So we know bunny has a limited amount of lives you will lose one when you touch a spike.
Secondly you are going to react to the spike.
Jump up.
And thirdly you cannot play a sound effect.
We're not going to do all of these in one video.
What I would do though is get that started.
Let's begin by creating a new scene for us.
And I'm going to make a note.
That's an area to deep.
I'm not going to make some sort of physics body right and not make a rigid body or a static body.
I'm certainly not an MC kinematic body I don't want my spikes to be moving around.
I'm going to make an area area.
2d is for detection and 2D physics influence.
This is really useful for us.
We don't need to have the physics engine constantly calculate what's happening.
We just want when the player enters this area do something.
First thing you notice is that area to deep throws up an error.
It wants a collision shape before the collision shape would probably need a sprite.
There's a sprite there.
Now we could make the Sprite the parent and the area too deep inside the Sprite.
But I like doing it this way.
I'm in graphics on the environment.
You'll find a group of spikes arctic's Spikes top and you are going into the textures.
There we go.
We now have a sprite in our area today so let's put in a collision show.
And we could probably get away with a rectangle here.
Would he think less give a shot rectangle.
No extents not scale.
If you try and scale it views these outside boxes that won't work so the inside circle box things make
that nice and big is that going to work.
Not quite as precise as I'd like.
You know what I'm going for a collision polygon shape.
Must do that instead.
Zoom in a little and let's start making our collisions shapes so we make sure we create new polygons
from scratch.
And I'm just going to click here.
Here onto the corner here.
One more.
And back here.
Right.
And I can drag this point all round a little bit get it as close as I can.
Okay that's now the collision shape.
Now this is an area of physics body so this isn't going to stop the player walking in.
What this collision shape is going to do is say when the player crosses the collision shape they are
in this area.
So to put this another way it's not like I've just built solid spikes.
I've created a spike that you can walk through but when you walk into it it'll know.
Speaking of let's go into collision.
Make sure on the right layer we are not player and we're not touraine.
We have a new part in our physics masks got a project settings down to 2D physics and we're going to
call this enemies.
All of our enemies would be on the same thing.
So you are on the enemy's lair and you can interact with the player.
Let's also why.
First off let's rename this to Spike's top.
Say that in scenes.
Let's make sure that the player can interact with the spikes.
So open up play a scene make sure enemies are selected and the player can interact with the terrain
and the enemies.
Awesome can save that and close this scene.
I don't need it right now.
I'm going to hide the collision shape.
It's not that necessary is a few things we could do to customize this.
First off let's make sure we're always moving all the child pieces.
We don't just want to move the Sprite want to move the whole thing and a couple of things we could do
if we were dealing with sound effects you could change to a different audio buzz here so when you move
in here there's an underwater sound or something.
That's not what you want.
What I do want to get a sprite's and we'll go to visibility and under modulate you can change the colours
you want.
Bright Future spikes.
Do you want black spikes.
Do you like girs sort of pasley Green spikes.
I'm gonna see what white looks like and I'm going to instance one in my scene and a level one I'm insisting
under the player scenes a spike stop and watch you're over here so let's move you to here.
So my problem with white and the reason I bring up the modulation is well look.
I can't see it against the clouds.
That's not fair.
If we play this game now now the Spike isn't doing anything as that's fine.
But look there is no way the player could be expected to see that high speed.
So I changed the colours on this.
Let's go back in the spike scene.
I'm going to modulate this to black.
The other extreme.
There's nothing in the game that's black right now so that should stand out very quickly.
Doesn't really look like a spiky go for a Golden effect or something like that but it's a good start.
Let's actually make sure that you can make this jump.
Could make this one year.
OK.
So let's put some functionality into this.
Like what does it need to do.
The first thing needs to happen is the Spike needs to send a signal when the player enters Let's take
a look at them.
That's what we want is not Area entered or area exited because that means if something else that's an
area to D comes in then do something we want one of these body things.
If something enters that isn't an area if it's a physical body what will I do.
We're going to create a signal from this node to itself.
Now I did say lipsey can't do that.
I kind of lied a bit but here we are into the deep the truth so let's create a script and Spike's top
and we're going to make sure it's in scripts not in scenes.
Call it spike stops good name and create it.
Now let's make that note body entered can next to me.
And there it is.
Okay.
So what needs to happen here.
Well we could detect that the thing that enters has the name player but there's an issue with that one.
Well there's a few issues one every time anything enters we're going to have to run this right.
And check is that the player too.
What happens if we decide to rename player.
In fact this is an ongoing issue with a with a language like Julie's script is very hard to rename notes
because you have to rename the script in a couple of videos or maybe next video.
Pretty soon we're going to look at a way around that but for now let's just be aware that this can be
an issue.
So we could check every time something enters get its name and if it's the name do that on the other
hand we don't need to because we are using collision masks and the only thing that can interact with
this is the player.
In other words the only time this signal is going to trigger is when the player enters it.
Awesome.
So the only thing that can interact with this is the player.
I don't need any logic right.
I can just make it do with things so one really could do for now.
It just print.
Ouch.
So if you enter this thing just print out to display later on I'm going to start connecting things like
lives and damage and all the rest of it.
Now let's just make sure it works.
So that's re size this side actually see the console webs not that much.
And there we go.
So I can see the card so now when I run to the spike we'll see.
Ouch.
But I only see it once because it's only returning this information as I enter.
I can be in here for as long as I like.
I have to leave it and come back.
This is awesome because it means that the players are not going to be continually losing lives I'll
lose a lifeline touch the spike and then I have to leave then come back in.
Once we put in the jumper things when you touch this you'll go up in the air again.
The players are going to notice that this isn't a physicality That's going do that which is great.
That's exactly what you want.
I'd like you to spike a new level go through a level add some more spikes if you want.
You can just use the spikes top of just made and duplicate them across.
Or you could do the press as you've just done and use the other spikes that you'll find in the asset
packs or we have one that can hang at the underneath of platforms and we have a couple of single spikes
as well.
You can make them bigger smaller really go crazy then test your level right.
You can make your level as crazy as you like but if it's not physically possible to finish well that's
not the best games like pause the video puts some spikes in your level make it crazy and exciting and
dangerous thing.
Give bunny a challenge.
And then when you come back I'll show you my spikes.
Okay let's add some spikes I've got here a spikes top.
I'm going to create a variant of this scene.
So one I do is I'm going to make a new inherited scene.
I'm going to inherit from Spike's top and I'm going to call this.
Spike's bottom.
And I take the spikes bottom image and I'm going to put it in the Sprite.
Whereas come back but in the Sprite and now was gonna make sure my collision shape works nicely.
And move my collision polygon like so.
It's pretty good.
Awesome.
All right.
Save that spikes bottom scene the next thing to do is under a level one I want to create a new note
and no too deep area today.
I lied.
I still see that I want to create a node to D.
There it is.
And I'm going to call this spikes
with capitals in the right place and I'm going to move my mice.
Spike top
in2 spikes.
This is going to be a container so I can just do that and I'm going to incense in Spike's bottom.
And let's do something scary over here.
How's that look.
Can you go in there a little closer.
Yes you can.
It's back stop that break.
And now I can just duplicate these and put them wherever I want so I can go here spec's topton and I
can make a separate spikes top on spikes bottom if I want.
But let's just add a few more speed this up as the men.
Okay.
Back to real time Miller see how that plays.
Now I haven't got any damage actually in the game yet but let's see.
Nope can't make that jump so that's get rid of that one.
So let's select this one and leave this note because I can't physically make that jump.
I also put on a platform but let's not.
Yeah.
Much more like it.
Man can I get down here.
Yes.
Have I received any ouches.
Yes I have.
How did you that.
There's double check my collisions.
You are correct sir.
You're correct.
I should not have received any collisions in a witness like that again.
I'm going to resize the screen so I can see this is says ouch.
What are you for ouches.
Why have I got four ouches.
Well let's just double check that my tynemouth is on the right collision.
Ah look at that time it was on the wrong collision.
So let's get to our tile map and put them on touraine not on player.
And now we shouldn't get any ouches.
Categories there with no ouches.
So that's where we're jumped down here.
And that's all good.
If I jump up here.
Ouch.
Oh that's a scary look at Level.
OK.
I've got something that's kind of workable for now and makes more enemies and some coins we can start
really controlling where the player goes.
Great work.
And that brings us to the end of the video.
So in this video we've looked at how to create an area too deep in way.
You might want to use them.
We've looked at how to making new inherited scene.
Remember when I took these spikes top and turned into a spikes bottom.
I've just taken the same scene and tweaked a few things and we've looked at how you can check vehicle
isn't there.
And we've checked our collision there and masks by realizing that the spikes were interacting with the
touraine and fixing that.
So great work and I'll see you in the next video.